README.md, before:

## Alex Saunders

Welcome to the CV of Alex Saunders. Maker of Things, Lover of Cat Videos, Solver of Problems, Enthusiast of Gadgets - the list goes on but to sum it up I'm a language agnostic web developer proudly trained at [Makers Academy](http://www.makersacademy.com/) looking for an opportunity to put to use the cool/amazing skills I've learnt at Makers and beyond.

Having partially completed a Computing BSc degree and fostering a life-long obsession for all things tech, I made the decision to switch from a successful career in Global Mobility and Cross Border compliance at EY to web development earlier this year and I haven't looked back since. Being able to start each day with a new problem and formulating creative and efficient ways to solve it has confirmed my suspicion that web development is a perfect fit for me.

I am looking for a role with a forward looking company that cares about the code they produce - somewhere where I can be stretched beyond my comfort zone, make really cool things and provide value where ever possible.

## Skills

#### Test Driven Web Development

I have gained a solid foundation in full stack object orientated programming and practice leading industry standards such as Test Driven Development (TDD), working as part of an Agile team and following SOLID principals when writing code.

Specifically I have experience of working in Ruby and Javascript developing apps in Ruby-on-Rails and React.js and at Command Line Interface level with a focus on maintainable DRY code.

##### Project Examples
| Project | Size of team | Description | Technologies |
|---------|--------|-------------|--------------|
| Bank Transactions React.js App<br>[Github](https://github.com/acsauk/react_api) |1| React.js app developed over 4 days that consumes bank transaction data from an API | JavaScript, React.js, jQuery, MUIcss framework |
| Meal Planner<br>[Github](https://github.com/acsauk/meal_planner) \ [App](https://meal-planner-ma.herokuapp.com/) |4| Rails app developed over 8 days that allows users to sign up, create recipes and make a 7 day meal plan | Rails, Javascript, PostgreSQL, SCSS (Milligram), Rspec, Capybara, HTML |
| Dress 2 Impress<br> [Github](https://github.com/jonnymoore12/dress_2_impress) \ [App](https://dress-2-impress-acsauk.herokuapp.com/dilemmas) | 5 | Rails app developed over 3.5 days that gives users the chance to have friends and family vote on their (sometimes dubious) fashion choices | Rails, Javascript, CSS (Bootstrap), Rspec, Capybara, HTML, Paperclip & Papercrop gems, PostgreSQL |
| Thermostatatic<br> [Github](https://github.com/acsauk/thermostat_js) | 2 | Vanilla Javascript app to simulate the actions of a thermostat that consumes a weather API to display weather local to the user | Javascript, jQuery, Jasmine, CSS, HTML |
| Inglorius BnBstards<br> [Github](https://github.com/samjbro/inglourious-BnBsterds) \ [App](https://inglourious-bnbsterds.herokuapp.com/) | 4 | AirBnB inspired app created over 4 days | Ruby, Sinatra, DataMapper, Capybara, Rspec, CSS (Bootstrap), HTML |

#### Fast learner

- Starting Makers Academy, I had minimal experience of object orientated programming and had never coded in Ruby or Javascript. 16 weeks later and I am now comfortable in both languages and have the skills and frameworks to pick up new technologies/languages quickly.

#### Communication and Teamwork

- Working on multiple Makers Academy project teams, pair programming on a daily basis and having worked as part of a Global team at EY for the past five years in office and remote settings, I am experienced at building and maintaining relationships with colleagues and clients alike from a distance and face to face.

- I designed and delivered multiple webcasts to groups of senior Partners based around the world while working at EY in order to educate on the complex tax and immigration issues surrounding cross border working in an easy to understand format.

#### Attention to detail

- Feedback from other students on my Makers Academy cohort highlighted my attention to detail while pair programming, in particular identifying syntax errors and providing alternative approaches to code structure

- During my time at EY I was responsible for submitting visa applications and tax filing information on behalf of EY employees which also instilled in me the importance of ensuring extremely high attention to detail

## Education

#### Makers Academy (June - September 2016)

Highly selective 12-week intensive coding bootcamp.

- Curiosity and a hungry passion for code
- Independent learner and problem-solver
- OOP, TDD, SOLID, MVC
- Software Craftsmanship
- Ruby, Rails, Javascript
- Rspec, Jasmine, Capybara

#### Open University (February 2011 - August 2012)

- BSc Computing (partially completed)
- Data, Computing and IT, Further Mathematics, Object orientated programming with Java

#### Birmingham City University (September 2004 - June 2007)

- BSc Sound and Multimedia Technology - 2:2
- Sound Production, Electronics, Web based Databases, Business Studies, Video Production and Signal Processing
- Created a Wii remote based music looping app for final project

## Experience

**EY** (2012 - 2016)    
Assistant Director - Cross Border Travel Support

**Vintage Delights** (2011 - 2013)    
Company owner - Confectionary business

**Phoenix Online Studios** (2004 - 2006)   
Volunteer Web/PR coordinator and video game character voice over actor

Full work experience available on [Linkedin](https://uk.linkedin.com/in/alex-saunders-b027b115)

## Interests

Aside from coding I love long distance running and try to get through at least two half marathons a year. I'm an avid gamer with a fierce loyalty towards all things Nintendo and I try to indulge my passion for live music whenever possible.

Commit message:

updates to CV after starting Existent Role

README.md, after:

## Alex Saunders

Welcome to the CV of Alex Saunders. Maker of Things, Lover of Cat Videos, Solver of Problems, Enthusiast of Gadgets - the list goes on but to sum it up I'm a language agnostic web developer proudly trained at [Makers Academy](http://www.makersacademy.com/) looking for an opportunity to put to use the cool/amazing skills I've learnt at Makers and during my current role..

Having partially completed a Computing BSc degree and fostering a life-long obsession for all things tech, I made the decision to switch from a successful career in Global Mobility and Cross Border compliance at EY to web development last year and I haven't looked back since. Being able to start each day with a new problem and formulating creative and efficient ways to solve it has proven that web development is a perfect fit for me.

I am looking for a role with a forward looking company that cares about the code they produce - somewhere where I can be stretched beyond my comfort zone, make really cool things and provide value where ever possible.



Having partially completed a Computing BSc degree and fostering a life-long obsession for all things tech, I made the decision to switch from a successful career in Global Mobility and Cross Border compliance at EY to web development last year and I haven't looked back since. Being able to start each day with a new problem and formulating creative and efficient ways to solve it has proven that web development is a perfect fit for me.

I am looking for a role with a forward looking company that cares about the code they produce - somewhere where I can be stretched beyond my comfort zone, make really cool things and provide value wherever possible.

## Skills

#### Test Driven Web Development

I have gained a solid foundation in full stack object orientated programming and practice leading industry standards such as Test Driven Development (TDD), working as part of an Agile team and following SOLID principals when writing code.

Specifically I have experience of working in Ruby, PHP and Javascript developing apps in Ruby-on-Rails, React.js and at Command Line Interface level with a focus on maintainable DRY code.

##### Project Examples
| Project | Size of team | Description | Technologies |
|---------|--------|-------------|--------------|
| Bank Transactions React.js App<br>[Github](https://github.com/acsauk/react_api) |1| React.js app developed over 4 days that consumes bank transaction data from an API | JavaScript, React.js, jQuery, MUIcss framework |
| Meal Planner<br>[Github](https://github.com/acsauk/meal_planner) \ [App](https://meal-planner-ma.herokuapp.com/) |4| Rails app developed over 8 days that allows users to sign up, create recipes and make a 7 day meal plan | Rails, Javascript, PostgreSQL, SCSS (Milligram), Rspec, Capybara, HTML |
| Dress 2 Impress<br> [Github](https://github.com/jonnymoore12/dress_2_impress) \ [App](https://dress-2-impress-acsauk.herokuapp.com/dilemmas) | 5 | Rails app developed over 3.5 days that gives users the chance to have friends and family vote on their (sometimes dubious) fashion choices | Rails, Javascript, CSS (Bootstrap), Rspec, Capybara, HTML, Paperclip & Papercrop gems, PostgreSQL |
| Thermostatatic<br> [Github](https://github.com/acsauk/thermostat_js) | 2 | Vanilla Javascript app to simulate the actions of a thermostat that consumes a weather API to display weather local to the user | Javascript, jQuery, Jasmine, CSS, HTML |
| Inglorius BnBstards<br> [Github](https://github.com/samjbro/inglourious-BnBsterds) \ [App](https://inglourious-bnbsterds.herokuapp.com/) | 4 | AirBnB inspired app created over 4 days | Ruby, Sinatra, DataMapper, Capybara, Rspec, CSS (Bootstrap), HTML |

#### Fast learner

- Starting Makers Academy, I had minimal experience of object orientated programming and had never coded in Ruby or JavaScript. After an intense 16 weeks I found I was comfortable in both languages and had developed the skills and frameworks to pick up new technologies/languages quickly.

- During my current role at Existent Ltd the main bulk of my time is spent maintaining and extending a legacy PHP codebase. This was a first for me in regards to both the language and legacy code but I had submitted my first pull request within two weeks to fix a bug regarding a postcode lookup that was preventing users from seeing available services in their area.

#### Communication and Teamwork

- Being part of a team of 5 developers at Existent, working on multiple Makers Academy project teams and having worked as part of a Global team at EY in office and remote settings, I am experienced at building and maintaining relationships with colleagues and clients alike from a distance and face to face.

- I designed and delivered multiple webcasts to groups of senior Partners based around the world while working at EY in order to educate on the complex tax and immigration issues surrounding cross border working in an easy to understand format.

#### Attention to detail

- Working with legacy code in my current role requires high levels of concentration and attention to detail in order to comprehend the app. This has instilled in me the need to take a step back when approaching a technical problem and ensure I understand the overall flow of the codebase rather than jumping straight in with preconceived assumptions.

- Feedback from other students on my Makers Academy cohort highlighted my attention to detail while pair programming, in particular identifying syntax errors and providing alternative approaches to code structure.

- During my time at EY I was responsible for submitting visa applications and tax filing information on behalf of EY employees which also instilled in me the importance of ensuring extremely high attention to detail

## Education

#### Makers Academy (June - September 2016)

Highly selective 16-week intensive coding bootcamp.

- Independent learner and problem-solver
- OOP, TDD, SOLID, MVC
- Software Craftsmanship
- Ruby, Rails, Javascript
- Rspec, Jasmine, Capybara

#### Open University (February 2011 - August 2012)

- BSc Computing (partially completed)
- Data, Computing and IT, Further Mathematics, Object orientated programming with Java

#### Birmingham City University (September 2004 - June 2007)

- BSc Sound and Multimedia Technology - 2:2
- Sound Production, Electronics, Web based Databases, Business Studies, Video Production and Signal Processing
- Created a Wii remote based music looping app for final project

## Experience

**Existent Ltd** (November 2016 - current)
Junior Full Stack Developer

**EY** (2012 - 2016)    
Assistant Director - Cross Border Travel Support

**Vintage Delights** (2011 - 2013)    
Company owner - Confectionary business

**Phoenix Online Studios** (2004 - 2006)   
Volunteer Web/PR coordinator and video game character voice over actor

Full work experience available on [Linkedin](https://uk.linkedin.com/in/alex-saunders-b027b115)

## Interests

Aside from coding I love long distance running and try to get through at least two half marathons a year. I'm an avid gamer with a fierce loyalty towards all things Nintendo (can't get enough of my Switch right now...) and I try to indulge my passion for live music whenever possible.
